README.md, before:

# Components of the solution:
There are 2 C# .Net solutions; 
-	AcquiringBankSimulator which is simulator Web API for an Acquiring bank with 2 endpoints: one POST that accepts the request and returns a “Successful” result object of ProcessPaymentResult, and one GET endpoint that returns an object of RetrievePaymentResult  
-	PaymentGateway: The actual assignment; One ASP.net core web API with 3 class libraries representing different layers of the system.
o	3 unit test projects representing each layer of the system


# How to run the solutions:
-	Open AquiringBankSilmulator with visual studio (2022?) and click run, this will open the swagger in a browser. Copy the base URL and the port from the browser and store to be copied later into appsettings.json in PaymentGateway API.
-	Open PaymentGateway API with visual studio, paste the base URL of AcquiringBankSimulator with correct port into appsettings.json under "AcquiringBank": "BaseURL" and run the API. This should bring up the swagger page for PaymentGateway API that consist of 2 endpoints. You can use Swagger or Postman to call these 2 endpoints.


NOTE: if you get SSL error when opening Swagger page, consider temporarily allowing insecure localhost in your browser, here is the URL for Chrome:  
Chrome://flags/#allow-insecure-localhost

## Technologies and techniques used:

`C#`
`.Net 6`
`Clean Architecture`
`NUNIT`
`FluentValidation`
`AutoMapper`
`Unit Tests`
`Swagger`
`Postman`

# Code Architecture and System Components:
**Note**: For a small project, structuring layers in folders might have sufficed, but this solution is split into different DLLs to highlight the layers of Clean Architecture.</br>
To demonstrate different layers of areas and domains of concern, a Clean Architecture has been implemented in 4 different projects under /src  folder. Each layer only depends on the inner layer, starting from the core layer:
-	 Domain layer contains entities, models, exceptions and Enums. 
-	Application layer holds  logic for Use Cases and features of the system, mappings and validations. PaymentService class has 2 functions that map the models and submits a request to HttpProcessor to send external request to acquiring bank 
-	Infrastructure deals with low level data infrastructure (Http Processor). HttpProcessor class is a generic class that can send any type of HTTP request. Retry and circuit breaking mechanism can be implemented here in the future. Loggings and other infrastructure stuff could also be implemented here in the future
-	Presentation layer is the PaymentGateway API containing 2 endpoints, one GET to get payment information and one POST to process a payment.

![Diagram](https://github.com/hmirzadeh/Payments/blob/master/OnionArchitecture.jpg)


## Solution request flow Diagram:
![Diagram](https://github.com/hmirzadeh/Payments/blob/master/Diagram.jpg)

# Assumptions: 
-	Acquiring bank will always be a separate API and gateway API shall communicate with it using HTTP
-	Credit card parameters to be submitted to Payment Gateway to process a payment are: FullName, CardNumber, MerchantId, Cvv, Amount, Currency, ExpiryMonth, ExpiryYear. 
-	Payment information and records to be returned when retrieving a payment include above parameters without CVV and merchant Id plus the result of that payment, Created date and a PaymentId.
-	When retrieving a payment information, CardNumber should be masked and only last 4 digits to be displayed
-	Credit card number shall be between 15-19 characters.
-	Cvv is a 3 digits number
-	Card Expiry shouldn’t be in the past



# Future Improvements: 
-	At the moment there is no logging, the service will need a logging component to log information about the flow at each step
-	Authentication could be added to the middleware to make sure requests are authenticated before reaching endpoints
-	HttpProcessor can be enhanced to include logic for retrying an Http Request, circuit breaking HTTP requests and log requests and responses.
-	HTTP processor will need  to accept Headers, we can pass and accept an Idempotency Key as a header that can be stored against MerchantId to make sure payments aren’t duplicated
-	We can add a health check to the system through logging under catch blocks and creating alerts accordingly
-	API Versioning 
-	Payments could also be cached to minimize communications to Acquiring bank 

# Cloud:
-	The service can be containerised using a dockerfile and deployed to a Kubernetes cluster. With this, we can enable auto scaling to scale out or in number of pods according to the traffic load.
-	It might be helpful to use a messaging queue (e.g. Kafka) to store payment information from the acquiring bank so the payment gateway can pick up these info faster. (with security, encryption, etc in mind)
-	Jenkins, Github Actions or other cloud CI build tools can be used to run the tests and calculate test coverage before each release.

Commit message:

Checkout: Updating Readme, and rename API folder to reflect it's an API

README.md, after:

# Components of the solution:
There are 2 C# .Net solutions; 
-	AcquiringBankSimulator which is simulator Web API for an Acquiring bank with 2 endpoints: one POST that accepts the request and returns a “Successful” result object of ProcessPaymentResult, and one GET endpoint that returns an object of RetrievePaymentResult  
-	PaymentGateway: The actual assignment; One ASP.net core web API with 3 class libraries representing different layers of the system.
o	3 unit test projects representing each layer of the system


# How to run the solutions:
-	Open AquiringBankSilmulator with visual studio (2022?) and click run, this will open the swagger in a browser. Copy the base URL and the port from the browser and store to be copied later into appsettings.json in PaymentGateway API.
-	Open PaymentGateway API with visual studio, paste the base URL of AcquiringBankSimulator with correct port into appsettings.json under "AcquiringBank": "BaseURL" and run the API. This should bring up the swagger page for PaymentGateway API that consist of 2 endpoints. You can use Swagger or Postman to call these 2 endpoints.


NOTE: if you get SSL error when opening Swagger page, consider temporarily allowing insecure localhost in your browser, here is the URL for Chrome:  
Chrome://flags/#allow-insecure-localhost

## Technologies and techniques used:

`C#`
`.Net 6`
`Clean Architecture`
`NUNIT`
`FluentValidation`
`AutoMapper`
`Unit Tests`
`Swagger`
`Postman`

# Code Architecture and System Components:
**Note**: For a small project, structuring layers in folders might have sufficed, but this solution is split into different DLLs to highlight the layers of Clean Architecture.</br>
To demonstrate different layers of areas and domains of concern, a Clean Architecture has been implemented in 4 different projects under /src  folder. Each layer only depends on the inner layer, starting from the core layer:
-	 Domain layer contains entities, models, exceptions and Enums. 
-	Application layer holds  logic for Use Cases and features of the system, mappings and validations. PaymentService class has 2 functions that map the models and submits a request to HttpProcessor to send external request to acquiring bank 
-   Presentation which is a Web API, the PaymentGateway controller is under Payments folder (folder is named according to the domain of concern, instead of just Controller. from my point of view both should be acceptable)
-	Infrastructure deals with low level data infrastructure (Http Processor). HttpProcessor class is a generic class that can send any type of HTTP request. Retry and circuit breaking mechanism can be implemented here in the future. Loggings and other infrastructure stuff could also be implemented here in the future
-	Presentation layer is the PaymentGateway API containing 2 endpoints, one GET to get payment information and one POST to process a payment.

![Diagram](https://github.com/hmirzadeh/Payments/blob/master/OnionArchitecture.jpg)


## Solution request flow Diagram:
![Diagram](https://github.com/hmirzadeh/Payments/blob/master/Diagram.jpg)

# Assumptions: 
-	Acquiring bank will always be a separate API and gateway API shall communicate with it using HTTP
-	Credit card parameters to be submitted to Payment Gateway to process a payment are: FullName, CardNumber, MerchantId, Cvv, Amount, Currency, ExpiryMonth, ExpiryYear. 
-	Payment information and records to be returned when retrieving a payment include above parameters without CVV and merchant Id plus the result of that payment, Created date and a PaymentId.
-	When retrieving a payment information, CardNumber should be masked and only last 4 digits to be displayed
-	Credit card number shall be between 15-19 characters.
-	Cvv is a 3 digits number
-	Card Expiry shouldn’t be in the past



# Future Improvements: 
-	At the moment there is no logging, the service will need a logging component to log information about the flow at each step
-	Authentication could be added to the middleware to make sure requests are authenticated before reaching endpoints
-	HttpProcessor can be enhanced to include logic for retrying an Http Request, circuit breaking HTTP requests and log requests and responses.
-	HTTP processor will need  to accept Headers, we can pass and accept an Idempotency Key as a header that can be stored against MerchantId to make sure payments aren’t duplicated
-	We can add a health check to the system through logging under catch blocks and creating alerts accordingly
-	API Versioning 
-	Payments could also be cached to minimize communications to Acquiring bank 

# Cloud:
-	The service can be containerised using a dockerfile and deployed to a Kubernetes cluster. With this, we can enable auto scaling to scale out or in number of pods according to the traffic load.
-	It might be helpful to use a messaging queue (e.g. Kafka) to store payment information from the acquiring bank so the payment gateway can pick up these info faster. (with security, encryption, etc in mind)
-	Jenkins, Github Actions or other cloud CI build tools can be used to run the tests and calculate test coverage before each release.
